arXiv:2209.04895v1 [cs.CE] 11 Sep 2022 Backtesting Trading Strategies with GAN To Avoid OverŢtting Ao Sun r05922147@ntu.edu.tw, Yuh-Dauh Lyuu lyuu@csie.ntu.edu.tw AbstractŃMany works have shown the overŢtting hazard of selecting a trading strategy based only on good IS (in sample) performance. But most of them have merely shown such phenomena exist without offering ways to avoid them. We propose an approach to avoid overŢtting: A good (meaning non-overŢtting) trading strategy should still work well on paths generated in accordance with the distribution of the historical data. We use GAN with LSTM to learn or Ţt the distribution of the historical time series . Then trading strategies are backtested by the paths generated by GAN to avoid overŢtting.(This paper is an tanslated English version of [1] which was originally written in Chinese in 2018, where some statements and claims are outdated in 2022) Index TermsŃBacktest, Backtest OverŢtting, GAN, LSTM, Algorithm trading. F 1 INTRODUCTION IN algorithm trading, strategy and backtesting are impor-the value E[maxn] appears, we should treat it as not sig.tant elements. The so-called strategy refers to the rules niŢcant. From the perspective of the annual Sharpe Ratio , that determine when to buy, when to sell, and the amount Eannual[maxn] Ĺ y(.1/2)E[maxn], where y is the length of of the transaction [2]. When we have a strategy, the most the sample. If we increase y we can increase Eannual[maxn] common practice is to do backtesting on historical data, so that the Sharpe Ratio of the experiment becomes more meaning that we would apply this strategy to past data to convictive(for example, Eannual[maxn] is close to zero, then see how it performs, as a way of evaluation for this strategy. the Sharpe Ratio greater than zero is considered to be This sounds good: we use some methods to Ţnd strate-signiŢcant result rather than an false positive result). More gies, then apply them to historical stock prices and get an discussion on this topic on be found in [4]. indicator such as Sharpe ratio to assess the performance of The concept of probability of backtest overŢtting was strategies. We pick the strategies with good indicator values, proposed in [5]. and Ţnally adopt these strategies in the real world, and then N we can enjoy a good life. X E[řrn|r . ˝ . ]P rob[r . ˝ . ] < N/2However this barely happens in real life. The gap be-nn n=1tween the dream and the reality is due to a phenomenon called backtest overŢtting where E[řrn|r . ˝. ] refers to the ranking of the best strategy n The purpose of this study is to propose a backtesting r in the sample outside the sample. The intuition of the framework, a data-generation-based one where the data formula is: OverŢtting is happening when the OOS(Out generating process is learned use the generative adversarial Of Sample) performance of the strategy who owns the network (GAN). This may extend the usage of GAN. best IS(In Sample) performance is lower than the aver.age performance. More specially, the best-ranked strategy within the sample has a lower rank outside the sample2 RELATED WORK than the average. The authorŐs method is to observe the There have been many studies on backtest overŢtting. In strategy-representation matrix, where Mst represents the [3], the authors severely criticized some of the problems performance of strategy s at time t (such as how much that were overlooked in the backtesting, including excessive proŢt or loss). Given a constant K, then Mst is divided data mining without considering the increasing probability into K equal time blocks to form a set, from which the of false positive. They proposed a concept , The minimum method will to chose any two of them to form a sampleBacktest length (MinBTL), to help to control this risk. The pair (in the sample, outside the sample), and then use these authorsŐ idea is as following: Suppose we chose N numbers sample pairs to do the backtesting and the selection. But i.i.d. from the standard normal distribution, and they calcu.note that this method only applies to the situation that there late E[maxn] which is the expected value of the maximum are multiple strategies and you need to choose one of these. of the N chosen numbers. The goal is to avoid the overŢtting of selection process. Then with a experiment which conducts N-number-In [6], this problem is discussed from a statistical point of choose (corresponding to the number of times we try differ-view:when searching the best conŢguration (hyperparame.ent conŢgurations on the same data) and a null hypothesis ters) for a model on a single data set, and evaluated bythat the mean of the distribution is greater than zero, if the Sharpe Ratio , the multiple-testing needs to replace the original single test, which means an additional haircut is re.Ą This paper is an English version of [1] which was originally written in quired for the Sharpe Ratio obtained from the test. Although Chinese. the adjustment of the Sharpe Ratio has been used in practical MAC  Parameters  p1  p2  Range  1.50  1.50  Exp.  p1 average price  p2 average price  TABLE 1: MAC strategy Parameters space for Moving Average Cross Strategy BH  Parameters  entry  hold  stop-loss  side  Range  1.30  1.30  0.20  {-1,1} Exp.  entry day  holding days  stop loss  long/short  TABLE 2: BH strategy applications, the authorŐs result is that the adjustment of the Sharpe Ratio is not linear. Generally, the larger Sharpe Ratios are the smaller the adjustment will be, because this implies these related strategies are effective. Meanwhile, the smaller the Sharpe Ratios are, the larger adjustments will be applied to them as they are more likely to be a false positive result. Finally, from the perspective of simulation, authors has discussed that the backtest overŢtting can be solved [2]. The authors Ţrst assume the stock price process as the Ornsterin-Uhlenbeck (OU) process, and then get the parameters in the OU process from the past data. Then through Monte CarloŐs method to make the model generate a lot of paths which are used to backtest some strategies, and discuss the factors affecting each strategy on these generated paths. 3 PREREQUISITE 3.1 Strategy There seems to be no standard in the deŢnition of a strategy. The trading rules deŢned in [2] represent the actual buying and selling. For the convenience of later discussion, we also made a deŢnition of the strategy: we can think of it as a function that maps a time series (such as stock price) to .1,0,1, where -1 is to short, 0 is to not operate, 1 is to long as shown in eq. (1) S. : {pt}T . {.1, 0, 1}T . R (1) And thereŐs two strategies we will use to disscuss next: 3.1.1 MAC strategy The MAC strategy is moving average cross [7]. This model accepts two parameters p1 and p2. The strategy calculates the mean MA1 of the last p1 periods stock prices and taht of the last p2 periods. If p1 >p2, let the position become 1 and vice versa. For more speciŢc information, refer to table 1 3.1.2 BH strategy The buy and hold strategy (buy and hold, referred to as BH) will accept four parameters entry, hold, stop-loss and side. The logic of the strategy is to divide the trading day into months, and the transaction is carried out in each month: enter on the entry (eg: 1-31) day, hold for hold days and then sell [8]. And if the loss during the holding period exceeds the stop-loss, sell it in advance. For more speciŢc information, refer to table 2 3.2 Backtesting The so-called backtesting refers to simulating a trading strategy in history, and then calculating a certain indicator to help judge the pros and cons of the trading strategy. DeŢne a backtesting function B as eq. (2) B : {pt}T . {.1, 0, 1}T . R (2) The outcomes of a stategy S are mapped to a real value as a measure of the quality of strategy S. The speciŢc B will vary according to different trading goals, but we stipulate that the larger the value of B is, the better the strategy is (otherwise, it is multiplied by -1), and we call the value of B the performance of the strategy. The common Sharpe Ratio used in our study: E[X] . RfSR : {pt}T . {.1, 0, 1}T . (3).X where X is deŢned as gain or loss calculated by each pair if {pt} and {.1, 0, 1}T 3.3 Objective function of backtesting Under the deŢntion of eq. (1) and eq. (2), we can deŢne the object of a trader to eq. (4) h  i . . = arg max Eµ BS(pµ; .) (4) . where pµ are the paths sampled from the distribution µ. That is we want to maximize the expected performance of the strategy with sampled paths. And here is the reason: we may easily move the which is similar to the bagging in the machine learning. That is we let the paths vote whether this strategy is good or bad. In the experiment we use the mean to 1 X  . . = arg max BS(pµ; .) (5)N. µ.AN where AN refers to the set of sampled paths. 3.4 Backtesting OverŢtting The process of solving eq. (5) is likely to cause the most troublesome problem in quantitative trading: overŢtting. For a detailed discussion, please refer to the following chapters. Here is an example to illustrate. Suppose we have a buy-and-hold strategy, call it S0 . We assume that the generation of stock prices is a random walk: P (t +1) = P (t)+ (t) (6) where (t) . N(0, 1) Let us generate a 600-day data with eq. (6) and take the Ţrst 300 days as historical data and the last 300 days as future data. So our goal is to Ţnd the best .0. on historical data to get a strategy S0. then apply S0. to future data and examine its performance. First, one consequence is that the expected value of strategy S0. should theoretically not be greater than 0 on the paths generated by eq. (6). This is because if strategy Fig. 1: IS vs OOS performance Corresponding to the Y-axis on the right, the green part is the equity curve in the sample, and the red part is the equity curve of the same strategy outside the sample. Corresponding to the left Y-axis, the solid black line is the in-sample price, and the black dashed line is the out-of-sample price. S0. leaves the market early, the proŢt and loss must be negative. However, if there is no early exit, the proŢt and loss is only related to the price of entry and exit. Suppose that the market is entered at time t and held for L days, and because "# t+LX E[P (t + L) . P (t)] = E (k) =0 (7) k=t so trhe expected value should be zero. But if we go through all the parameter combinations in table 2, and pick the conŢguration that has the best performance on historical data, Ţg. 1 will be the result. The green part is the equity curve (equity curve, which records the change of funds during the investment process) obtained on the historical data, and the red part is the equity curve obtained on the future data. The green equity curve clearly has a non-zero return. In addition, if we do not consider the above conclusion that the expected value is 0, we can also see an obvious result from the graph: although the historical performance is very good, the future performance is far from the historical performance. The reason for this result is very simple: the conŢgura.tion of this strategy performs so well in the sample because the conŢguration of this strategy Ţts the noise in the sample, for example, the backtest data happens to be on the 12th of each month On the 17th, it is all rising, and the parameters of the strategy happen to be buying and holding on the 12th for 5 days, but eq. (5) indicates that the probability of rising and falling from the next 12th to 17th is the same, so the strategy will be on the 12th to 17th. The 17th doesnŐt actually make money. 3.5 Anti Backtesting OverŢtting To illustrate further, since we know the stock price genera.tion formula eq. (5), we use Monte Carlo simulation to do Fig. 2: IS vs OOS performance The distribution of the Sharpe Ratio of the strategy in Ţg. 1 on the generated 2000 paths, the green dashed line represents the distribution of the Sharpe Ratio of the IS in Ţg. 1, and the red dashed line represents the OOS another experiment: we apply S0. to 2000 stock-price-time.series generated with eq. (5) and get backtest results (for each generated path). The results are shown in Ţg. 2. The blue frequency plot represents the distribution of the Sharpe Ratio s of S0. on all generated paths, where the green vertical line corresponds to the in-sample performance, which we can see is clearly an outlier, and we can see that the mean value in the frequency map of this approximate normal distribution falls near 0, which is consistent with the expected value of 0 we said earlier. From this small experiment we can feel that perhaps referencing the results of backtesting on multiple paths as a distribution is a better goal for backtesting, see below for a further discussion. Another angle to examine over-Ţtting can be examined from the smoothness of the parameter conŢguration corre.sponding to the performance, we use MAC and eq. (6) and white noise: P (t)= (t) (8) where (t) . N(0, 1) It should be noted that MAC has an expected value of 0 on the random walk procedure of eq. (6), while there is a strategy with an expected value greater than 0 on eq. (8), the results refer to Ţg. 3b and Ţg. 3a. The Ţgures show the performance of traversing all the conŢgurations of the two parameters: the more blue it is, the higher the Sharpe Ratio is, the better the backtesting effect is; and the more red it is, the opposite is true. On random walk, the dark blue part (that is, the of the corresponding conŢguration is signiŢcantly greater than 0) is not presented smoothly but jumps, while the result on white noise is much smoother. This example shows that if a conŢguration of a strategy is found to perform well in the backtest, but the backtest of (a) MACŐs Sharpe Ratio on a random walk its surrounding conŢgurations is poor as shown in Ţg. 3b, then we should be concerned that this may be an overŢtting result . Conversely, if the backtest function is smoother, it indicates that the probability of conŢguration overŢtting will be smaller as shown in Ţg. 3a. 3.6 LSTM with GAN Long-and-short term memory model neural network (LSTM) was Ţrst proposed by [9]. Different from the tra.ditional neural network , LSTM not only uses the current input and output, but also uses the results calculated by the previous time steps, as shown in Figure 2.9, where . represents the sigmoid function.Q The concept of Generative Adversarial Networks, pro.posed by Ian Goodfellow in [10] in 2014, has sparked a wave of research in recent years. There are countless papers appearing, all of which are various variants. Almost all versions of GAN have the same idea: there is a generator G, which is responsible for mapping from the distribution Z on a latent space to the distribution T we want. The trick is to extract a sample from the potential space and throw it to the generator, which will generate a sample of the distribution T. In the process, a discriminator D is also needed, which is responsible for distinguishing whether the data is generated from the T distribution or the generator is generated from the Z distribution. RGAN was proposed in [11] earlier this year. The pur.pose of RGAN was to solve the privacy problem when real patient data was used as research data. The R in RGAN corresponds to the meaning that both the generator and the discriminator are recurrent neural networks. RGAN was proposed in [11] earlier this year. The purpose of RGAN is to solve the privacy problem when real patient data is used as research data. In [11], the target data is a time series with four di.mensions: pulse oximetry, heart rate, respiratory rate, and mean arterial pressure. It can be seen that if we donŐt care about the speciŢc physical meaning of the value, we can completely replace the data with the opening price, the highest price, the lowest price and the closing price and bring it into the framework of RGAN. In addition, in this study, we changed the discriminator part of RGAN from LSTM to bidirectional LSTM, the purpose of which is to enhance the discriminatorŐs ability. (b) MACŐs Sharpe Ratio on a white noise 3.7 Model First, letŐs take a look at the performance of GAN on the common data generation model: whether it can learn this model, the requirements for the amount of data, and so on. From a veriŢcation point of view, we use the stock price model GBM, which is often assumed in the Ţnancial Ţeld. Ţg. 3 is an overview of our model: data sampled from the latent space is thrown to a generator. The output of the generator has the same shape as the real data, so they will be thrown to the discriminator respectively. Since the produced data and the real data are time series, the discriminator at each moment will also have a corresponding output. When After all the time data is input, we summarize the output of the discriminator for the generated data and the output of the discriminator for the real data separately, and Ţnally put them together to calculate the cross entropy as loss. Ţg. 3 is the overall architecture of the model. From a separate point of view, in the latent space part, we choose 5 dimensions, and each dimension is an independent stan.dard normal distribution. In the generator part, we use the LSTM model, in which the number of hidden layer nodes, we have tested different numbers in the experimental part for comparison. The activation function passed by the hidden layer uses sigmoid, and the activation function of the output layer uses tanh. In the discriminator part, we tried a single RGAN and a two-way RGAN. The activation function passed by the hidden layer uses sigmoid and the activation function of the output layer uses tanh, and the number of hidden layer nodes is that we did another experiment. to compare. The part that has the greatest impact on the model is the number of hidden layer nodes of LSTM, and its impact on parameters is shown in table 3 # parameters # hidden units  generator  discrimator  total  100  42,901  82,800  125,701  50  11,451  21,400  32,851  10  691  1,080  1,771  TABLE 3: Number of parameters and that of hidden units Fig. 3: Architecture of the network Where the yellow parts for generated data; blue parts for real data; red parts for the data sampled from latent space 4 EXPERIMENT: LEARNING A UNDERLYING MODEL 4.1 Underlying Model Selection The target random process we choose RGAN chooses is GBM as shown in eq. (9): dyt = µytdt + .ytdWt (9) where Wt is Brownian motion. Solveing eq. (9) we can optain  ..   yt = y0 exp µ . .2/2 t + .Wt  (10)  where  ..   ln yt . N µ . .2/2 t, .2Wt  (11)  This stochastic process was chosen for the following reasons: The evaluation of GANs and the veriŢcation of whether the time series came from a certain sample has always been an open question ( [11], [13]). Especially in the image Ţeld commonly used by GAN, the judgment conditions are mostly the human eye, but it is difŢcult to use the same standard for time series. With eq. (10) we can do a statistical test: When we have a collection of model-generated time series {yeT }N we can test the distribution of ln yet,.: Hypothesis 1: for each t, is ln yet,. follow the normal distribution where the mean value is . µ . .2/2 t and the variance value is .2t 4.2 Preprocessing In addition, since the Ţnal activation function of the gener.ator is tanh, which means that the value range is (-1, 1), we need to normalize the samples to the interval of (-1, 1), here we use:  sp . spraw minsp =2 . (12)new sp . spmax min Among which, sp generally refers to the samples gener.new ated by the model, sp and sp represent the minimum min max and maximum values of the samples generated by the model, and samplenew represents the samples we really use for RGAN. In addition, since eq. (12) will make the maximum (small) value in the sample 1 (-1), when RGAN wants to generate a time series longer than T, it will encounter a problem: the generated maximum value is limited. So our data preprocessing changed from eq. (12) to eq. (13)   1 sp . spraw minsp = . 2 . (13)new scaling sp . spmax min where scaling is a constant of our choosing. 4.3 Evaluation The evaluation for different models should be different, be.cause it is quite difŢcult to test the distribution of time series [11], [13], but because of our choice of GBM, we can take the natural logarithm of its value in each period, then The distribution of each period will be a normal distribution, and its expected value and variance on the time scale will be linear with time. In training, the criteria for judging whether a GAN is good at learning is vague [11], but since the characteristics of the time series we choose are obvious (expected value and variance increase linearly in time), thus we use the theoretical The linear equation is used as our goal to calculate R2 with the data generated by GAN, as shown in Ţg. 4a and Ţg. 4b, and the discussion of the entire training process, including the amount of data, the amount of parameters, etc., will be discussed in the experimental results and analysis. . 4.4 Result 4.4.1 Statistical Ţg. 5a shows what the samples generated by the GBM model look like. Ţg. 5b shows the generated frequency plot of the distribution of these samples at each moment. Just like eq. (11), the distribution of each period is close to the normal distribution. From Ţg. 5b, it seems that the distribution is moving and the standard deviation of the distribution is increasing over time, which can be seen more clearly in From Ţg. 5c and From Ţg. 5d. Ţg. 5c and From Ţg. 5d show the expected Fig. 4: R2 for generaeted dataŐs mean and variance and its expected values The expected mean/variance of the generated time series (10,000) at each moment. The horizontal axis is the time point of the time series, and the vertical axis is the expected value. The Ţtting situation (GBM model) of the theoretical value (red line) and the actual value (blue dotted line) is displayed. The display here is quite good, and the learning can be stopped at this time. value and variance at each time of the GBM time series, which, as in theory, have a linear relationship with time. As mentioned earlier, this linear relationship is very helpful in our training, one of the goals of our training is to observe whether the expected value of the time series generated by RGAN at each time point is linear with time. Ţg. 6a shows what the path generated by the (trained) RGAN looks like. As we said, it is difŢcult to compare it with the naked eye to Figure 4.1. It is easier to refer to Ţg. 6b, the distribution of Ţg. 6b does seem to have learned some of the properties of Ţg. 5b compared to Ţg. 5b: symmetry, increasing expected value over time, increasing variance over time in Increase. For the latter two, it would be more helpful to compare Ţg. 6c and Ţg. 6d and Ţg. 5c and Ţg. 5d. We can see that both Ţg. 5c and Ţg. 5d indeed exhibit the property of linear inertia with time. The red line in Ţg. 5c and Ţg. 5d represents the theoretical line: reference (3.3). It can be seen that the blue one has a fairly high Ţt, where the R2 of the expected value is 0.994935 and the R2 of the variance is 0.9946425. 4.4.2 Data size and Number of Parameters In the previous section, we realized that RGAN can indeed learn the results of GBM quite well from some interpreta.tions, but as mentioned earlier, the training of RGAN is not easy. The choice of hyperparameters (learning rate, etc.) has a relatively strong relationship [14]. In this section, we fur.ther experiment the inßuence of the following parameters on the results of RGAN, including the angle of the model and the angle of the data. The data perspective has been discussed in Research Methods. First, we compare the impact of the number of hidden layer nodes and the amount of data on training. Ţg. 7a and Ţg. 7b show the performance of different conŢgurations over time. The horizontal axis represents the number of batches fed to the model, the Ţxed batch size is 50, and the vertical axis is the expected value and theory of the model trained at that time. The R2 of the expected value straight line corresponds to the variance, and the meaning of R2 can be referred to Ţg. 4a and Ţg. 4b. As can be seen from the Ţgure, the learning effect of the model with too few hidden layer nodes is not ideal, and the R2 performance of the model with 10 hidden layer nodes is poor. This is actually very reasonable. The huge number of parameters is a characteristic of deep learning. As for the further discussion of the number of parameters, model complexity and model generalization ability, please refer to [15]. Surprisingly, RGAN does not require a high number of samples in this experiment! When the number of samples is only 100, the ideal training state can still be achieved. However, this may be caused by overŢtting. OverŢtting in GAN means that GAN completely memorizes the sample instead of generating the distribution of the sample. 5 EXPERIMENT:BACKTESTING ON GENERATED PATHS Next, look at the results of GAN from the perspective of trading strategies. In practice, the training of GAN is very difŢcult [16], and sometimes the results learned by GAN are not completely ideal. In this case, is it really not helpful for backtesting at all? Not so. To give a simple example, suppose our real model is a random walk model, that is, the price of the next period is equal to the price of this period plus a value derived from a standard normal distribution, such as the mean and standard deviation of the normal distribution of each period. The difference will not affect, even if it does not pass the test of the normal distribution, it does not matter, the important thing is that it is symmetrical and the mean is 0 (this means that the expected value of the next periodŐs proŢt can be calculated and guaranteed by the conŢdence interval), It can be seen that whether to learn the complete generation distribution of stock prices may not be so important for the strategy. The speciŢc approach of this part is to use the generation process of hypothetical stock prices, and we study the strategies that can theoretically have positive expected values on these stock prices and (a) Simulated data path (b) Distribution for each time t (c) Mean value for each time t (d) Variance value for each time t Fig. 5: Characteristic of Monte Carlos Simulation (as benchmark) (a) Generated data path (b) Distribution for each time t (c) Mean value for each time t (d) Variance value for each time t Fig. 6: Characteristic of GAN generated data Fig. 7: (input size, network size) versus train time strategies with zero expected values (on OOS), so that we have an OOS on A reference value for the performance of the strategy. Based on this reference value, we can compare the methods of centrally generating strategies and compare whose results are closer to the reference value. 5.1 Model selection On the basis of GBM, a new process AR(2) is added to the experiment here: yt = a + byt.1 + cyt.2 + t (14) where t . N(0, 1) In order to compare GBM, we selected a =0,b = 1.1,c = .0.5. The reason for this selection is that the absolute value of the root of the characteristic polynomial of eq. (14) can be less than 1, which ensures that eq. (14) is stationary. In addition, we have listed the theoretical results of each theoretical strategy in each process at the bottom. BH and GBM Since the logarithmic expected value of GBM increases linearly in time (see eq. (11)), the expected value held by BH should indeed be positive. BH and AR(2) Since the expected value of our AR(2) is constant over time (because our AR(2) is a stationary process), the expected value for how long it is held is 0. MAC and GBM Since the past of GBM has no effect on the future, and under our model and parameters, the expected value of the GBM logarithm increases linearly in time, so the expected value held by the MAC should indeed be positive. MAC and AR(2) Due to the stationary nature of our AR(2), the past mean can be used as an estimate of the expected value. Therefore, when the strategy Ţnds that the current price is lower than this average value (that is, p1 is selected long enough and p2 is 1, that is, the current period), choosing to buy instead of selling can ensure that it is proŢtable online. Model Strategy  GBM  AR(2)  BH  YES  NO  MAC  YES  YES  TABLE 4: Theorical strategyies has postive return on model 5.2 Evaluation As mentioned in [11], how to evaluate the quality of the data generated by GAN is challenging. Unlike traditional machine learning models, the loss of the generator and dis.criminator has little signiŢcance for the evaluation of model performance. In the image part, assessments that usually judge the quality of images generated by GANs mostly rely on human ratings. TSTR (Train on Synthetic, Test on Real) and TRTS (Train on Real, Test on Synthetic) proposed in [20]. They consist in training a traditional classiŢer on a generated (real) dataset, then testing the results on real (generated) data, and if the two are close, the GAN is considered to have learned. We made some adjustments to the algorithm, as indi.cated in algorithm 1 We now use the training set to train a generator, and then we Ţnd a best-performing strategy from the data generated on the training set, and get a strategy score indicator (such as Sharpe Ratio ), preferably we apply this strategy to the test. The score index on the test set is obtained on the set, and we compare the two score indicators to score it. Algorithm 1: Algorithm for backtesting strategies 1 train data, test data . split(data) 2 discriminator, generator . train_GAN (train data) 3 for conŢg in conŢgs do 4 strategy = argmax (backtest (synthetic data, conŢg)) 5 synthetic score = backtest (test data, strategy) 6 test score = backtest (test data, strategy) 7 score = score (synthetic score, test score) 8 end Since there is a model, we Ţrst Ţnd the strategy, then use our model to generate paths, and apply this strategy to these generated paths, so that we get a distribution of backtest performance, which we become the target backtest result distribution. Secondly, we then apply the strategy found above to what we learned with the GAN, so that we can also get a distribution. Finally, we compare the distribution of target backtest re.sults with the distribution of experimental backtest results, including setting a conŢdence interval for the distribution, comparing the results of Monte Carlo with the results of GANŐs rejection, which becomes a classiŢcation problem. 5.3 Result 5.3.1 Perforamnce As mentioned earlier, GANs can approximate common stock processes, but is such an approximation enough for us to backtest? We did an experiment here. Ţg. 8a and Ţg. 8b show the experimental results of BH.GBM. The choice of our strategy is to pick the best within the sample. It can be seen that the red and blue PDFs are quite close: this means that under the BH-GBM combination, the reference value of the model learned by GAN in backtesting is similar to that of the real model. Ţg. 8c and Ţg. 8d show the experimental results of MAC-GBM. At this time, the P.D.Fs of red and blue are not so close, and the mean of blue is obviously larger than that of red, but from the CDF, the difference between the two is not large, so when we choose a reasonable conŢdence interval to reject false positives. Ţg. 9b and Ţg. 9b, and Figures Ţg. 9b and Ţg. 9b performed well, with similar conclusions to Ţg. 8a Ţg. 8a. 5.3.2 Confusion matrix In addition, we also do tests, sample 100 for each (process, strategy) combination and compare with Monte Carlo re.sults. We deŢne how effective the strategy is: the frequency of Sharpe > 0 exceeds 0.75 (while will be applied for Monte Carlo and RGAN. We can also adjust this value to control our recall and precision). table 5 presents the results for strategy BH and process GBM. It can be seen that the overall accuracy rate is good, only the part that RGAN thinks is invalid and Monte Carlo thinks it is effective may be adjusted by adjusting the threshold of RGAN. table 6 shows that the results of strategy MAC and process GBM are not very satisfactory, which may be related to the performance of Ţg. 8c. table 7 shows the results of the strategy BH and the process AR(2). It can be seen that the correct rate is 100%. As mentioned earlier, the expected value of BH and AR(2) cannot be positive. table 8 shows the results of strategy BH and process AR(2). It can be seen that the correct rate is 100%. As mentioned earlier, the expected value of BH and AR(2) is impossible to be positive. Through the above results, we Ţnd that under these stock price models and strategies, our method is quite close to the expected correct answer, that is, in the backtesting part, the distribution learned by GAN can replace the real distributed. GBM-BH  Monte Carlo  positive  negative  RGAN  positive  72  0  negative  8  20  TABLE 5: BH strategy and GBM GBM-MAC  Monte Carlo  positive  negative  RGAN  positive  32  9  negative  18  41  TABLE 6: MAC strategy and GBM AR(2)-BH  Monte Carlo  positive  negative  RGAN  positive  0  0  negative  0  100  TABLE 7: BH strategy and AR(2) AR(2)-MAC  Monte Carlo  positive  negative  RGAN  positive  39  1  negative  1  59  TABLE 8: MAC strategy and AR(2) 6 CONCLUSIONS This paper starts from the backtesting overŢtting problem that is easily encountered in quantitative trading, and hopes to use GAN to learn the distribution of stock prices to alleviate this problem. From a machine learning perspec.tive, we study the nature of GAN learning, including the generator and discriminator architectures and the number of parameters, as well as the number of samples required by GANs for the task of mitigating overŢtting. From an appli.cation perspective, we investigate whether the distributions learned by GANs help to mitigate backtest overŢtting. We obtained the following conclusions through experi.ments. Under our hypothetical model and selection strategy: (1) GAN can learn some properties of commonly used stock price models. (2) The importance of the sample size in this experiment is not that great. (3) Scaling can alleviate some related problems of its value range in the generation stage, but at the cost of sacriŢcing some statistical properties of the variance. (4) The distribution learned by GAN is enough to avoid the problem of overŢtting to some extent under some strategies we choose, which can help us to better screen strategies. REFERENCES [1] A. Sun, ŇBacktesting trading strategies with gan to avoid overŢtting,Ó MasterŐs thesis, National Taiwan University, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://tdr.lib.ntu.edu.tw/handle/ 123456789/1188?locale=en. [2] P. Carr and M. Prado, ŇDetermining optimal trading rules without backtesting.Ó [3] D. Bailey, J. Borwein, M. Prado, and Q. Zhu, ŇPseudo-mathematics and Ţnancial charlatanism: The effects of backtest overŢtting on out-of-sample performance,Ó Not. AMS, vol. 61, no. 5, pp. 458Đ471,. [4] D. Bailey and M. Prado, ŇThe deßated sharpe ratio: Correcting for selection bias, backtest overŢtting and non-normality,Ó J. Portf. Manag, vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 94Đ107,. [5] M. Prado, D. Bailey, J. Borwein, M. Prado, and Q. Zhu, ŇThe probability of backtest overŢtting,Ó J. Comput. Financ. [6] C. Harvey and Y. Liu, ŇBacktesting,Ó SSRN Electron. J. [7] C. Investopedia, ŇMoving averages: Strategies,Ó available:. [Online]. Available: https://www.investopedia.com/university/ movingaverage/movingaverages4.asp. [8] Investopedia, ŇBuy and hold,Ó available:. [Online]. Available: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/buyandhold.asp. (a) GBM-BAH-PDF (b) GBM-BAH-CDF (c) GBM-MAC-PDF (d) GBM-MAC-CDF Fig. 8: Simulation results for the stationary GBM process. (a) AR2-BAH-CDF (b) AR2-BAH-PDF (c) AR2-MAC-CDF (d) AR2-MAC-PDF Fig. 9: Simulation results for the stationary AR2 process. [9] S. Hochreiter and J. Schmidhuber, ŇLong short-term memory,Ó Neural Comput, vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 1735Đ1780,. [10] I. Goodfellow, J. Pouget-Abadie, M. Mirza, B. Xu, D. Warde-Farley, and S. Ozair, ŇGenerative adversarial networks,Ó in NIPS, p. 2672Đ2680. [11] S. Hyland, C. Esteban, and F. Ratsch, ŇReal-valued (medical) time series generation with recurrent conditional gans.Ó [12] S. Nowozin, B. Cseke, and R. Tomioka, Ňf-gan: Training generative neural samplers using variational divergence minimization.Ó [13] L. Theis, A. Oord, and M. Bethge, ŇA note on the evaluation of generative models,Ó in ICLR, p. 1Đ10. [14] J. Bergstra and Y. Bengio, ŇRandom search for hyper-parameter optimization,Ó J. Mach. Learn. Res, vol. 13, pp. 281Đ305,. [15] K. Kawaguchi, L. Kaelbling, and Y. Bengio, ŇGeneralization in deep learning.Ó [16] P. Bojanowski, A. Joulin, D. Lopez-Paz, and A. Szlam, ŇOptimizing the latent space of generative networks.Ó 